Feature: Documentation Translation (#250)
simde-utc/portail: documentation/backend/oauth.md

# API rights with OAuth

> *(customized by Samy because he's a beast)*

Reviewer: @abrasseu x)

## Quick presentation

> A token is a triplet (`client`, `user`, `scopes`).This token is retrieved by an association's `client` (Wich is an API, a Webwite, an Interface) or a user (connected user or personnal API). 

Reviewer: which*

> A token is a triplet (`client`, `user`, `scopes`).This token is retrieved by an association's `client` (Wich is an API, a Webwite, an Interface) or a user (connected user or personnal API). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A token is a triplet (`client`, `user`, `scopes`). This token is retrieved by an association's `client` (Which is an API, a Website, an Interface) or a user (connected user or personal API). 
```

#### Verb definition

Actions have a classification and inherit their parents' rights.
- **manage**:  Whole resource management
    + **set** :  Possibility to write, update and delete data
        * **create**:  Create the associated data
        * **edit**:    Update the associated data
        * **remove**:  Delete the associated data
    + **get** :  Read-only retrievement.

### Facades

The `Scopes` façade simplifies Scopes usage.

These methods generate required middlewares on demand. 

- `matchAnyUser()`: Authorizes only user-associated clients.
- `matchAnyClient()`: Authorizes only non-user-associated clients.
- `matchAnyUserOrClient()`: Authorizes only connected clients.
- `match($scopes, array $scopes2)`: Detects depeding on the given args:
  - If `$scopes` is of type `string`: returns `matchOne($scopes)`
  - If `$scopes` is of type `array` : returns `matchAll($scopes, $scopes)`
- `matchOne($scopes)`: Authorizes only if the client has one scope of the given list or their child (Considering verb inheritance). 
- `matchAll(array $scopes, array $scopes2)`: Authorizes only if the client has all scope of the two given lists.

> Some similar functions retur an boolean instead of authorizing trough some middlewares. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some similar functions return an boolean instead of authorizing trough some middlewares. 
```
